# zkDAO Background Assignment

Email: **kototsuki99@gmail.com** <br>
Metamask: **0x9B6F303E681AAFE5579C166926158AA0305631cE**<br>
Discord: **kaguya22#2613**<br>
<br>


## A. Conceptual Knowledge

1. **What is a smart contract? How are they deployed? You should be able to describe how a smart contract is deployed and the necessary steps.**

**Ans**. A Smart Contract is a program which resides on the blockchain and blindly follows the code that is written in it. It is like a contract, because the code contains some rules and the users interacting with the smart contract agree to those rules.

There are 2 types of transactions in solidity: <br>
A) **Regular**: From one wallet to another.<br>
B) **Contract**: In this a transaction is made without the “to” field and “data” as the bytecode of the contract.<br>

After writing a contract in solidity, it first compiles down to its bytecode which is the machine level code that the `EVM` (Ethereum Virtual Machine) can understand and execute. Then we make a transaction from an account without the to address. This will create a “Contract Account” on the blockchain with its own address, treasury and balance.

When we want to interact with any specific contract, we must have the contract address and `ABI` (Application Binary Interface), because the bytecode deployed on the blockchain on the contract address does not specify the function, variables, arguments which the contract contain, but the ABI does.
<br>
<br>

2. **What is gas? Why is gas optimization such a big focus when building smart contracts?**

**Ans**. Gas is the fees paid to change anything on the blockchain. It is the transaction cost which is awarded to miners for the computational work they do and to verify each and every block of the blockchain.

During the time of high traffic on chain, gas prices can reach upto $220 for each transaction which makes it very difficult for an average person to use it. Therefore, gas optimization is a big focus while writing smart contracts to keep it feasible at all times.
<br>
<br>


3. **What is a hash? Why do people use hashing to hide information?**

**Ans.** Hashing is a cryptographic process to encrypt information, and hash is the output of the hashing process. A hash is not human understandable and looks as gibberish text. Unlike ciphers, hashes are one way, irreversible conversion of an input source.

A hash is generated by a hashing algorithm, which takes text as an input and returns a hash as an output. Eg.
```
“You are awesome” can be hashed to “2423d0ca84c04b7155ca9ac1e9194832ebccbc42801f1a3c1c40892be6bb3673”
“You are awesome!” can be hashed to “2056193e4fc7c897b21603442169b8c7c8ed3ccf89752c5ffe4a9d28e528575d”.
```
This is the SHA256 hash algorithm.

As you can see that a good hash function is not input dependent and there is no way one can back track to know the original input text. That is why hashing is the most common way to hide information.
<br>
<br>

4. **How would you prove to a colorblind person that two different colored objects are actually of different colors?**

**Ans.** This can be done by something called a ZK-Proof (Zero Knowledge Proof). 
- We will give the colorblind person, say Alex, two different colored balls. 
- Then we will ask Alex to keep one ball in each of his hands. 
- Then we will ask Alex to move his hands behind the back and do any one of the following:
    - Swap the balls in both hands.
    - Do nothing and keep the balls in the original hands.

- After that he will show us his hands and we can tell if he has swapped the balls or not.
- Here Alex can say, that there was a 50% chance of us being right. And he is right.
- So we can repeat this process as long as we like, to assure Alex that it was not just luck but the balls are of different color. With each turn the probability of it being just luck reduces by half. So after 10 turns our probability of being right reduces to 0.0009765625%.

This is how we can prove a colorblind person that two different colored balls are actually of different colors.

